## μgie: lightweight testing on [Boogie](https://github.com/boogie-org/boogie)
μgie provides a lightweight testing on the popular intermediate verification language Boogie. 
We call this idea the _robustness testing_ on IVLs.  
By introducing syntactical variants (which should not impose any semantical change), μgie generates a collection of mutants from the input seed program.  
The goal of mutating the original seed Boogie program is to exercise possible language variants of Boogie, and to further explore brittle behaviours of deductive verification systems.  

#### What is μgie? (pronounced: "moo-gie") 

μgie is a tool which inputs a seed [Boogie program](https://github.com/boogie-org/boogie) 
and generates a collection of mutant programs, each with a slight mutation twist from
original seed. This tool is developed with the goal of stress-testing overall brittleness of program verifiers. 

The mutations DO NOT introduce any semantical change
to the underlying seed but merely explore syntatical variants of the
seed, think of it as a "thesaursus" for your Boogie programs.


## Usage: 
μgie operates by reading a stand-alone JSON configuration file.  
You can invoke μgie by:  `BMu config.json`  
Inside the JSON config file you can specify the following parameters: 
  1. `sourceBoogie`: source program you want to conduct robustness testing. 
  2. `mutationRatio`: deciding the overall distribution of each mutation operator; the randomly operator selection is based on this weighted list. 
  3. `mutationLevels`: specifying how many _mutation operators_ are generated internally; mainly for internal testing and is a refined parameter. 
  4. `numberOfMutants`: #mutants you wish to output. 
  5. `mutationAttempts`: #tries before giving up. 
  6. `outputToFile`: if μgie should write to STDOUT or to files. 
  7. `verbose`: toggle verbose output along the generation process. 
  8. `prefix`: adding a customized prefix on the generated mutants. 
  
We've included on example `config.json` under `Mutation` directory, it is configured to: only use "L8" as mutation operator and generate 1 mutant within 10000 tries. The mutant is reported to STDOUT. 

## Benchmark Mutants: 
Here's a collection of mutants we used as our [benchmark](https://chalmersuniversity.box.com/shared/static/5a1dvt1s0am5smx4u23oezuw6633hiuf.zip), including an un-biased mutant set and specialized ones. 


## Mutation operators
------------------
The implementation of `mugie` offers more mutation operators than those described in the paper.
In addition, the operators' names are not the same as those used in the paper: the following correspondence is used.

| operator name in the paper | operator name in mugie |
|:--------------------------:|:----------------------:|
|  S1                        |   S1                   |
|  S2                        |   S5                   |
|  S3                        |   S6                   |
|  L1                        |   L1                   |
|  L2                        |   L2                   |
|  L3  (L3a + L3b)           |   L4 + L5              |
|  L4                        |   L6                   |
|  G1                        |   G2                   |
|  G2                        |   G10                  |

and here is a table briefly describing each mutation operator: 

| operator name in mugie | description                                                                        |
|:----------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| S1                     | Swap any two declarations                                                          |
| S5                     | Split a procedure definition into declaration and implementation                   |
| S6                     | Move any declaration into a separate file (and call Boogie on both files)          |
| L1                     | Swap any two *local* variable declarations                                         |
| L2                     | Split a declaration of multiple variables into multiple declarations               |
| L4 + L5                | Join any two pre-/postconditions into a conjunctive one                            |
| G2                     | Add `true` as pre-/postcondition, intermediate assertion, or loop invariant clause |
| G10                    | Remove a trigger annotation                                                        |


## Headers: 
Each mutant generated by μgie comes with a header, loggind down basic
information of this mutant. Most importantly, we can have a closer
look at the mutation history---the overall mutations μgie applied---of
this mutant. 

## More details: 
Read our [paper @arXiv]()
